---
layout: post
title:  "Writing More Often"
excerpt: "My resolution write more regularly"
date: 2022-06-17 02:15:20 -0500
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This blog does not get nearly the amount of attention from me that it should.
 Throughout its lifetime I've written only a few posts a year.
 I'd like to say for the most part they are pretty high quality and have addressed some pretty thick topics, but real quality comes from lots of repetition and a high degree of consistency.
 In an effort to improve upon my writing skills I'm going to commit to posting a small amount once a week.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Posting once a week will definitely prove to be a challenge, but I think it should be fun.
 I have a handful of half completed posts in my backlog that I haven't pushed out because I've been worried about their quality.
 I think they have some interesting thoughts that I'd like to share, so even if they aren't as polished as every other post I've written I'll find a way of wrapping them up into something that's at least readable.
 After I push those out I have a lot more to do.
 Not every post is going to be as beautiful as some of my previous entries, but I just want to have something tangible I can show my friends and not every post is going to be some deep technical topic (though many of them may be).
 I'd like to write more opinion pieces, talk more about b-boying, and mabye start working on my creative pieces again (I'd like to make some use of that minor I worked so hard for in college).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; So yeah, check out this blog more often.
 I'll try to set up a distribution list and link this on my various socials so people actually know when I'm publishing.
 Hopefully you'll find it interesting.

(Also, this counts as this week's post)
